so the new Netflix horror film the
ritual has gained a pretty good cult
following to it which you really love
this movie now while it wasn't my
favorite there was one big aspect of the
movie that I praised throughout my past
video and that was the monster so for
those of you who wanted to know more
about the monster its origins
here's your monster explained video for
the ritual twigged Aemon to examine
that's why you don't have to quote it
now of course it's one of those movies
where the monster is like half
metaphorical but also obviously we see
it as well so the monster can also be
viewed as something within dumb as the
director says something that we followed
throughout the character journey where
we're dissecting the issues of
masculinity and male friendships as we
age and how hard it is to keep them
together and then we got a pretty cool
old norse viking mare thing yeah it's
following them but of course it's the
physical monster that sticks with you as
a viewer it was designed by Keith
Thompson who's worked with my uncle
Guillermo on several movies in the past
like crimson peak and they decided to
take a bit of Norse and British
mythology to create this pagan figure
but at the same time not limiting
themselves to strictly doing one thing
personality this characters in there for
those who know the marble Loki the real
Norse Loki is just a bit different
it's a Norse God that was a little bit
like Wilt Chamberlain and had dozens
upon dozens of kids some that were giant
wolves some that were serpents some
there were eight legged steeds and
others that were just these
shape-shifting Yelp dunes that sought to
be worshiped God ancient well in the
book the guys come across black
metalheads and an old lady with hoods
who performed the titular ritual the
movie swaps them out for a cult village
that worships the shape-shifting deity
who in the book actually has a name
which is moto or probably as you
pronounce it and Norris who there we
worship it it keeps us here beyond
natural life if we were to look at it as
a god of grief then the main offering
that it's offering is this exchange of
you worshiping it so then it could take
away any sorrow that you may be feeling
or you know like the pink character you
can pretend to bow then slice it right
in the head and escape director David
Bruckner talked about how he wanted it
to look different every time that we saw
it so it kind of played with our minds
and plays with the dudes who are
freaking out smiles and so this
amalgamation of different body parts of
animals and half-human helps portray
that and in my opinion creates one of
the best creatures that we've seen in a
long time
[Music]
thus Bruckner brings up that idea of
playing with the nightmare scenes it's
not something I'm always the biggest fan
of but he does do that thing where he
leaves it up to the viewers
interpretation for you to wonder at what
point is the main character waking up
from a nightmare or waking up to a
nightmare if the monsters we face and
we're lost our external or internal or
plot twist if we ourselves are that
monster thank you guys for checking out
this video I know a lot of people dug
this movie and if you're a big horror
fan I have been saying I've been pushing
a movie called hereditary which comes
out as June as being the best horror
movie that you're gonna see all year so
be stoked for that one if there's
anything else that you want me to
explain breakdown let me know down below
in the comment section I got a couple of
other ones that are coming up this
upcoming week but don't forget to
comment like and subscribe and you too
can also be one of Loki's bajillion kids